so this is an AMD 6970 graphics card it
is one of the first revisions what I'm
doing here is I'm attempting to remove
these tiny memory heat sinks from it
problem is this stuff permanent thermal
adhesive it's a very good however now
that I'm considering water cooling my
graphics card I was uh researching
universal water blocks because since
this is a sixty nine seventy there
stands a chance that within my water
blocks life span I want to upgrade my
graphics cards so I won't want to have
to buy a new water block and after
looking at several water blocks most of
them are low-profile and would end up
getting in the way of the RAM sinks up
top here so I have to ask how permanent
is permanent we were talking about this
thermal adhesive and I googled several
different forums several different
suggestions came up some involves
putting the card in the freezer for ten
minutes to an hour some even said they
did it overnight and I wasn't willing to
do that I thought well a can of
compressed air would be cold as well too
as well
however after try and compressed air it
did not prove successful without them at
least I didn't want to apply a lot of
force the whole idea is I want to be
able to do this without applying a lot
of force I also tried this thermal
material remover this stuff is designed
to only remove thermal grease but I
figured what the hell I'll give it a try
that did not work either so now instead
I decided I would try instead of going
cold I would go heat so I have a heat
gun it's uh standard arts and crafts
heat gun nothing fancy I think I bought
it for 20 bucks at a Menards so what I'm
doing is I'm successfully removed these
three now obviously I'm trying to be
delicate because well I don't want to
take the RAM off as well I have no idea
how well they're attached I'm gonna err
on the side of caution but they're not
very securely attached to the board so
I'm gonna heat up this round sink then
I'm gonna take this exacto knife and I'm
gonna try and very carefully slide it in
between the RAM and
I'm gonna try and bury it into the
thermal light he says now the thermal
adhesive is an epoxy okay ceramic it's a
lot like the stuff that you would use to
combine tile or a seal of a bathtub it's
not exactly the same it's pretty close
the idea is once it gets solid it
doesn't get on solid so by eating it I'm
not actually gonna make it jelly again
I'm basically just gonna weaken the bond
now what happened with these three was
when it ended up popping off the popped
up immediately and it did not turn jelly
it's just a solid sheet of epoxy so I'm
gonna heat it up the rim sink is gonna
end up being very hot to the touch
you're not gonna be able to hold it so
that's why I'm gonna do this with the
exacto knife some point let's give it a
shot for this last one hopefully I can
get it successfully done with the
recording
you're gonna need I'm gonna heat it up
on various sides
with these other three it's up to those
so I'm not gonna heat it for very long
give it a few seconds Iran is gonna be
very hot don't touch it I'm gonna try
so weasel my exacto knife in between and
you're gonna apply very very little
pressure very little when the thermal
epoxy is ready to come off it will not
take much effort when it's ready it's
ready err on the side of caution
take as many times as you need
notice I'm also doing a slight seesaw
motion motion parallel with the flat of
blade but I'm still not applying much
pressure
you want the blade only to get into the
thermal epoxy you don't want it to slide
across the rim itself you don't want to
scratch it you don't wanna chip it okay
go again another
and that could be exactly try and find
the same slit used before continue the
seesaw motion very light pressure
still not coming round three
with this kind of procedure you take as
long as it thinks it takes you ten
minutes whatever what else are you gonna
do with that thing minutes nothing we're
gonna watch TV they're on the side of
caution
voila pops right off that's it a touch
there you go
Queen Ram Ram Singh comes right off now
if I get a universal water block I can
have one man goes flush with the RAM I
mean you'll find some lower profile Ram
sinks maybe I won't put a Ram Singh Kham
at all
either way hopefully this is informative
to those who used or are planning to use
this arctic silver thermal and adhesive
some suggestions I've seen on other PC
forums is that instead of see what you
do is he mix a 1 to 1 ratio of Parts A
and B okay well what I've heard other
people do is mix a 1 to 1 to 1 ratio of
parts a and B and some standard Arctic
silver 5 Arctic silver 5 is just a
thermal grease it's not an adhesive so
if you mix it in you still get thermal
con you can still get thermal
conductivity but the adhesive portion is
weakened probably making this whole
procedure much less painful so that's
what I'm probably gonna do if I ever do
this method putting grams sinks on a
graphics card again thanks for watching
hopefully it's helped you out